Israel has suffered its biggest loss of
life on a single day since the war in
Gaza began 24 soldiers were killed today
most in an explosion in the central part
of the Gaza Strip the Army says that two
buildings mined for demolition collapsed
when Hamas militants fired at a nearby
tank Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu has called it a tragedy but
has vowed Israel will not stop fighting
until absolute Victory is achieved over
Hamas which many countries classify as a
terror IST
organization families and friends of
some of the soldiers killed on Monday
gather at the national cemetery in
Jerusalem to pay their final
respects the military says an
investigation is underway to determine
what caused the highest single day death
toll since Israel launched its counter
offensive in Gaza initial reports
suggest the majority 21 reservists were
killed after a rocket propelled grenade
fired at an Israeli tank set off a
secondary explosion that brought down
the buildings they were
in it seems that an RPG missile was
fired by terrorists at a tank that was
guarding the force in parallel there was
an explosion of two two-story buildings
the structures collapsed as a result of
this explosion at a time where most of
the soldiers were inside them inside
them and near
by the buildings likely exploded as a
result of Mines that our forces had
planted inside in order to destroy the
buildings and the terrorist
infrastructure in the
area the Israeli Prime Minister said it
was one of the hardest days for his
country since the start of what he
called an unjust
War we bow our heads to the memory of
our fallen and yet we do not for a
moment stop striving for an
Irreplaceable goal the achievement of
absolute
Victory together we will fight and
together we will
win a sentiment echoed by many on the
streets of Jerusalem upon hearing the
news of the soldiers you know it's our
it's our sons it's our brothers it's
it's terrible but we got to do we got to
do to so that October 7 doesn't happen
again it's very sad but I think that you
know we are a strong Nation
with a strong Army we're not supposed to
to to to be down I am sick that we're
losing these wonderful young men we need
them alive in Israel we didn't want this
war we have to fight for
Israel but one doesn't have to travel
far to find an opposing Viewpoint across
the street a crowd is gathered demanding
Israel switch tactics in Gaza and reach
a deal which would allow the remaining
hostages to come
home
all right let's get the ladies now from
our correspondent Rebeca Ritter she's in
Jerusalem Rebecca tell us how have
people in Israel been reacting to news
of the dead
soldiers well Brent there's been shock
and sadness and even anger as you heard
in that report right across the country
uh in the single deadli as 24-hour
period for soldiers uh since this
offensive began uh the president Isaac
Herzog said it was an unbearably
difficult news to wake up to this
morning and and we heard also that prime
minister Benjamin Benjamin Netanyahu has
spoken out calling it a tragedy but
vowing to push on until Victory is
achieved still maintaining his line that
Victory will be achieved and can be
achieved that of course being the
complete eradication of Hamas uh we saw
mourners Gathering there for the
funerals this was as you've been
reporting the single deadliest day with
21 people 21 soldiers I should say uh
being caught up in one single s Le
attack now the uh the military have done
a preliminary investigation they found
that the soldiers perhaps weren't
protected enough they said they would
learn uh the lessons from this incident
and that even though this was in an area
that was pretty much has been taken by
the IDF and it's pretty much shed up
that it's still very difficult to stop
these pockets of humas Fighters coming
out and shooting at them and and what do
we know what's the latest on the
fighting in
Gaza well the F the military they say
that they've completely surrounded that
southern city of hanun now that has been
a focal point for some weeks now we know
that it is a stronghold of of some key
Hamas brigades and that has been a
particular Target of the Israeli
military as they work their way South
now we know that hospitals are coming
under um coming under particular Target
in the last 24 hours or the last few
days even uh the the bombardments are
really continuing new near one of the
hospitals the AL Amal Hospital uh and
the red cresant there the staff that
they run that hospital that say they've
actually lost contact with staff at the
hospital now now another really the
biggest hospital that is still
functioning in Gaza the NASA hospital is
also Under Siege with one doctor writing
on Facebook that he was fearing for his
life and that the smell of death was
everywhere so so hospitals a particular
Target at the moment we know that the
Israel military say that Hamas use
hospitals as command centers as bases
for uh to carry out their operations and
so they have been a particular Target
throughout this
offensive Shalom lipner worked for seven
consecutive Israeli Prime Ministers
between 1990 and 2016 now he's with the
Atlantic Council Think Tank I asked him
for his reaction to the news of the
deaths of so many Israeli soldiers in
one
day well Israelis are obviously
understandably shaken up by the largest
single day casualty count since October
7th um in the in the incident where the
building collapsed I think in Gaza we're
looking at 21 there were a couple more
the totals I think they're about
25 um Israel is a small country with a
citizen Army I don't think there's
anybody here who doesn't know somebody
directly affected a family member a
neighbor um so there's obviously you
know a lot of consternation today I
think that um that set there's still
pretty much a broad consensus here um
that the campaign should continue that
obviously you know the events of October
7th should never be allowed to repeat
themselves so people are are pretty much
determined to continue that um what you
have seen on the sidelines I would say
that was maybe an exacerbation of
pre-existing tensions um concerning
maybe the best way to go about pursuing
the war objectives sort of the
sequencing among them the priorities so
you know that tension is is surfacing
not so much you know deterring people
from continuing but lots of questions
about what that might look like moving
forward Mr lner I wanted to ask you
about uh Benjamin netanyahu's comment
that this was one of the most difficult
days for Israel and so is this likely to
affect Israel's strategy in the war
against
Hamas well again these are questions
that you know they become louder I think
after after events like these um there's
been this an ongoing discussion between
the the nature of the two primary
objectives the government has set forth
um to you know bring about the defeat of
Kamas and to also um when the freed of
the the release of the hostage is being
held in Gaza government's been arguing
that those
two goals
are that to pursue a deal like that will
be if the pressure is is ratcheted up so
you know those two things continue um at
the same time you know you hear La
voices on the other side suggesting that
uh that those two goals do not actually
coexist very well and that um you know
that uh that there should be a sequence
to that and that given the fact that the
hostages have been you know held in
captivity for 100 over 100 days already
that that goal should be put ahead of
the other one even if it requires you
know sort of to put the the pursuit of
the campaign in continuing phases onto a
back burner so you know that that's
certainly on the table as well and
that's just another Factor affecting the
question of the intensity at which this
campaign is being
pursued and here's DW correspondent
Tanya kma in Jerusalem with more on how
the soldiers
died yeah it has been described here in
the Israeli media as the deadliest day
for the Israeli troops fighting in this
War uh in Gaza so from reports here um
what is being known at this point is
that apparently uh currently the uh
Israeli Army is clearing what they call
structures and and buildings uh along
the perimeter on the Israel Gaza border
uh to allow at some point uh the Israeli
um communities to return back that are
living close to the border so they're
trying trying to create apparently a
buffer uh Zone and were planting mines
and explosive there in structures so an
RPG from one of the militant groups was
apparently shot and uh a one of the
structures soldiers were working in uh
planting those mines and explosives uh
uh exploded uh there talks about a
devastating scene there that a SE rescue
uh there's on the way so 21 soldiers are
confirmed killed in this incident
bringing the overall death toll of
troops in Gaza to
219 and of course we're seeing all kind
of also reactions here from the
political level pouring in uh saying
that you know this incident uh should be
taken that the war on Gaza needs to be
uh needs to
continue